# LyricLookup

## Description
The "LyricLookup" application is an Android app that utilizes the Genius API to look up lyrics for songs found in the user's phone storage. 
The Genius API is hosted by the popular "Genius" service that provides lyrics and other song information for a wide variety of songs. 
In order to integrate with it, this app uses "rapidapi". The rapidapi documentation can be found here: https://rapidapi.com/Glavier/api/genius-song-lyrics1/

## How the App is Used
- When the app is first launched, the user is shown a main screen which contains a button that prompts a user to select a song upon being clicked.
- A user selects a song from a list that is generated by searching the device's external storage for audio files.
- Upon selecting a song, the song is searched for in the Genius API. If the song is found, a new screen is shown that contains the song's lyrics. In addition to the lyrics, information about the song such as artist and release date is provided. An image of the album cover that the song is part of is also displayed.
- If a song that is selected by the user is not found in the Genius API, a popup is shown that informs the user that the lyrics could not be found.

## Required Permissions
The LyricLookup application requires the following permissions for the following reasons.
1. READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE - Required for obtaining songs found in the user's device
2. INTERNET - Required to look up the song information.
3. ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE - Required to determine if the device has the required internet access.

## Brief Codebase Overview
- GeniusAPISong: Class used to represent a song found in the Genius API.
- UserStorageSong: Class used to represent a song found in the user's external storage.
- MainActivity: Activity for the screen initially shown to the user upon application launch.
- SongInfoActivity: Activity for the screen containing information about the selected song, which includes the lyrics.
- SongInfoFinderTask: Async task used to look up information about a selected song.
- AsyncResponseIF: Interface for the async task utilized in the SongInfoFinderTask.
- SongLibraryActivity: Activity for displaying the list of songs found in the device's external storage.
